% This document is retired as of 2023-12-20.
% All information is accounted for.

This file lists resources and their descriptions.

Title:  Implementing the Forth Inner Interpreter in High Level Forth
Date:  2016-09
URL:  http://www.euroforth.org/ef16/papers/hoffmann.pdf
Abstract:  This document defines a Forth threaded code (inner) interpreter written entirely in
    high level standard Forth. For this it defines a specific threaded code structure of colon
    definitions, a compiler from high level Forth to this threaded code and a corresponding
    inner interpreter to execute it. This inner interpreter can run in a stepwise way and so gives
    the surrounding environment control of its execution behavior. A real time environment
    thus might slice the execution of threaded code in small pieces and provide an interactive
    command shell while still meeting its real time requirements.
References:
    [1] A synchronous FORTH framework for hard real-time control, U. Hoffmann and A. Read, euroForth 2016
    [2] Threaded Interpretive Languages: Their Design and Implementation, R. G. Loeliger, McGraw Hill, 1981
Notes:
   - This paper describes a Forth inner interpreter that runs inside a Forth system. This allows
   the Forth system to control the execution of the 'virtual' interpreter. This is relevant
   to Real-Time Operating Systems (RTOS).
   - This paper is not relevant to the MacroProcessor Forth system

Title:  Fig-Forth internals
Date: 2021-09
URL:  https://www.jimbrooks.org/archive/programming/forth/FIG-FORTH_internals.php
Abstract:  My notes from studying and modifying 8086 assembly code of FIG-FORTH. Describes
    how FIG-FORTH interpreter executes internally, how interpreting and compiling are virtually 
    the same operation, ingenious solutions used to assemble FORTH interpreter. Also describes 
    modifying FIG-FORTH to have direct-threaded code (DTC). 
Notes:
    - These notes are likely to be useful in understanding more low-level information.
    - This is not a walkthrough of the Forth system
    -"When FORTH starts, it begins executing machine-code of physical CPU. FORTH registers 
    IP SP RP of FORTH virtual processor are initialized. System words COLD WARM ABORT are 
    executed which completes initialization. ABORT executes QUIT"
    - "During execution of COLD which starts a FIG-FORTH system, QUIT creates command 
    prompt. QUIT contains words QUERY INTERPRET. QUERY accepts commands, INTERPRET 
    interprets or compiles them. QUIT emits OK message after INTERPRET returns."
